As we have seen, Python provides us with many tools to work in the field of data science, numpy,
pandas and map plot lib.
These are libraries we can take advantage of in order to process, analyze and visualize databases of
all kinds.
Next, we are going to explore another aspect of data science, which is called machine learning, and
it's a branch of artificial intelligence.
Python can also help us here where we basically want a computer to learn based on its own experience.
Let me give you an example.
How does your email inbox notice if a certain message is about something important to you, something
you want to read, or if it is actually an update from your networks, a promotion from a company or
spam that could even be deleted without you seeing it.
The magic happens thanks to an algorithm that was programmed to do this.
This algorithm was created with some parameters that enable it to recognize one thing from another,
but then it is going to start determining which emails should go to which folder based on observing
your behavior.
But if we take it for granted that this exists and that it surrounds us every day, building this type
of algorithm is not simple and in fact requires a very high level of abstraction, understanding text,
relating concepts, looking for patterns and much more.
And that's machine learning.
There are several forms of machine learning, and today we will see one of the most important forms
supervised learning in this paradigm.
You at the as the data scientists have a database that is already structured, that is it has several
columns or fields and several rows or records within that data.
There is one that we want to be able to predict when new records appear.
For example, we want to learn to predict what customer will eventually buy or our product by taking
into account a database of registered users on the website and certain characteristics of their information
and registered behavior.
In this case, the flow of a supervised learning task scene in a simplified way would be like this.
First, we take the data we already have from our site history and we separate the predictor, the X
variable from a variable.
We want to predict the Y variable.
Secondly, we train our program.
How do we train a machine?
We show our code, the pairs associated between Y and each of the labels and X so that it learns how
the relationships between Y and each of those attributes are.
We also show our code which characteristics are predominant in those who buy and which are predominate
in those who do not buy.
In this way, the machine creates a set of rules or associations so that it can then anticipate the
new case.
And finally, once the model has been trained, we can use it from here.
We expect the model to be able to tell us how likely a new user of my website is to buy my product or
not by using a great approximation capacity.
This allows me, as a business owner to make decisions about how much to invest in targeting a given
visitor or to go plan marketing strategies to specifically attract to my site those visitors who are
most likely to buy what I sell.
To apply all this in Python, you will learn about the Psychic Learn library in the next lecture, which
has everything we need to follow these steps that will allow us to design a machine learning model.
This will help us finally face today's final project.
We are going to create a machine learning model that will allow us to identify if the passenger of the
Titanic is going to survive or not to do so, I'm going to provide you with a data set containing the
ship passengers records with some of their personal characteristics, and you are going to train your
machine to establish relationships between those attributes so that it can then tell you which characteristics
are most decisive to define whether someone will survive or not.
Will Jack and Rose be representative cases of the results of our model?
We'll see in a few minutes.
In the next lecture, you will return to our lab notebooks to carry out this project through a first
machine learning model decision trees.
By using values of some of these properties, a decision tree seeks to find questions in the data that
allow it to classify new instances or, in our case, new passengers of the Titanic.
A decision tree is a structure composed of nodes, branches and leaves.
A new instance is classified by traversing the decision tree at each node.
The tree asks the new passenger a question about one of its attributes.
Depending on the answer to this question, the passenger is then directed through one of.
Of its branches, where it may appear as another node, another question or end up in a leaf.
The leaf contains the label that corresponds to that passenger and that gives the final answer survive
or not.
Let's put it all into practice and see how it works right now.
To about.